Chuck: If the moon is constantly getting
farther away from the earth every year
Neil: About two inches a year. Chuck: Okay, so about
two inches a year, then why do we have a
supermoon where the moon appears larger?
Neil: Okay, first I got to nip this in the bud.
Don't get me started!
Chuck: I'm getting you started. Neil: Don't get me started.
Chuck: I got to get you start here!
Neil: All right, so
there's something called a supermoon.
I don't know who first called it a supermoon.
I don't know, but if
you have a 16-inch pizza would you call
that a super pizza compared with a 15-inch pizza?
Chuck: How many meat toppings are we talking? Because if I'm talking like
totally loaded, then yes, I'm going.
Neil: And is there cheese in the crust?
Chuck: Right, if there's cheese in
the crust, I mean, come on!
Neil: The supermoon is a 16 inch pizza compared
with a 15 inch pizza. It's a slightly
bigger moon. I ain't using the adjective super. Excuse me. Chuck: That's like Super Tuscan.
Neil: I'm not going there. Super Tuscan
wine, yes. They're super because
they're super priced. It costs like four
or five times regular. You've been paying like $100!
Alright, so where was I? Why are we talking about wine?
I'm talking about the universe here!
Chuck: I now, what can I say, I'm
always thinking about wine. So there
is no supermoon is what you're saying.
Neil: So the supermoon is... the moon's orbit
around the earth it's not a perfect circle. Sometimes
it's closer, sometimes it's farther away.
And every month there's a moment
when it's closest. Occasionally, that
moment when it's closest coincides with
a full moon. People are calling that a
super moon,  but there's super half-moons.
Alright! Every month! So
one of those phases is the closest.
I don't hear people going super-crescent, super half-moon. No! No!
I told you don't get me started!
Not only that, I was going to Tweet this
but I'm going to say it here and now
first. You ready? Do you know the full
Moon has no higher tidal effect on Earth
than any other phase of the Moon?
Chuck: Now you're just making stuff up!
Neil: Alright, when we come back, more StarTalk.